---
aliases: 
tags: 
date created: 2021-11-26 15:01
date modified: Monday, April 11th 2022, 6:51:04 pm
date modified: Monday, April 11th 2022, 6:51:04 pm
title: MORPHISMS
---

# MORPHISMS

## Basic Body

The basic Vector body, possessed by about 95% of the Vector population, has no morphism aside from some slight variations in leg shape. Digitigrade legs, plantigrade legs, legs with hooves, just about anything that’s simply bipedal with a few quirks falls into this category. Plantigrade legs end in feet of a more or less human shape, with toes and a flat platform to walk on. Digitigrade legs end in tapered paws, making you walk on your toes and the balls of your feet rather than with your heel touching the floor. Digitigrade and plantigrade legs have both existed since Vectors first came into being, and carry no intrinsic bias among most communities. Shoes are available for both.

## Aberrant Anatomy

A ghost in the genes has manifested in you, taking the form of anatomy atypical for your species. Wings on a cat, hooves on a dog, even extra arms or tails can fall in this category. This isn’t a result of grafted on from another life form.Aberrant anatomy stems primarily from the fact that Vectors are basically all the same as each other, deep inside. Each Vector can interbreed with every other type, and their genetic programming will produce an offspring of one species rather than a mix. To make this possible, the code for everything needs to be present in everyone, and occasionally things get turned on that shouldn’t. Public reaction to this tends to vary by location and by just what you’ve got hanging off of you, but it results in less bias than you might think. Cosmetic surgery has been producing canines with multiple tails and cats with wings and multi-armed Vectors for centuries now, and while they’re certainly less common than a normal body, most people just assume your extra bits are after-market.

## Hybrid

You are a hybrid of two Vectors. Your appear-
ance is some combination of the two. Mutt-reduction in Vectors is specifically intended to prevent this sort of accident, so you’re likely to get a few stares. Being a hybrid tends to oust you from both of your parent breeds but can be rather attractive to other species with an eye for the exotic. Make it work for you. Hybrids are almost always sterile, however, so don’t count hybridism so much as a slip in the code, where something got activated that shouldn’t have been.Typically, the extra anatomy will look like it belongs to you rather than being on leaving your progeny behind to carry on the look. Like aberrant anatomy, hybridism is a living example of the artificial nature of Vector existence firing in a way it isn’t supposed to. To some, they’re considered bad luck. Hybrids are a potential species endgame that was coded against since Generation One, where worries about too much mixing resulting in species-wide sterilization resulted in numerous systems to make sure that a tiger would always be a tiger and a rabbit would always be a rabbit and whatever the two of them produced together would end up being one or the other. The hybrids that do occasionally crop up in Vector society aren’t much risk to the breeding population, as they amount to less than 1% and can’t reproduce, but there is historical stigmata attached to the condition.

## Lateral

You look like a normal, unmodified version of your progenitor species. You can still speak (and are somewhat more expressive than your animal counterparts), but you are otherwise no different than a normal animal. Laterals are rare; the galaxy doesn’t build its consoles with paws in mind, or at knee-level. Snake characters are Laterals by default, and may select a second Morphism.

A great many snakes choose to have body replacements at young ages to avoid having to spend their lives in a very challenging form, and some other morphisms manifest in unique ways in snake Vectors. Laterals have life the hardest in Sol, at least in comparison to other Vectors. Even micros, who have a pretty rough lot on their own, still have dexterous hands, thumbs, and the same general posture as the rest of the solar system. With a Vector brain powering them, Laterals can get a lot more general dexterity out of their paws than a real animal could, but it’s still no substitute for a hand. Most Laterals rely heavily on Pushframes, a small necklace or head-mounted device that allows for short range levitation of small objects through mental control, to tackle most of their everyday lives. It at least allows them to type and use hand-tools. With it, they can actually be quite an asset where things like speed, agility, and small-scale manual manipulation are required, as it’s a very precise device. History tells of the years before it was perfected, and how Laterals had to use robotic appendages, Body Sockets, or simply do without. Laterals wear clothing like Vectors do. Despite the inconvenience of having to wiggle into them, Laterals are still people: 75 integrated, contributing members of society who have been present since the earliest days of Vector existence. As such, they are subject to the same rules of decency; you don’t wander around nude on the street. Laterals rarely begrudge it; they have as many feelings of modesty and as much desire to decorate themselves appealingly as any other person does. Clothing and decoration are big parts of personal expression, and Laterals want to be seen as themselves rather than akin to a wild animal. It’s a bit more difficult to get dressed without hands, but no one said having a rare morphism was easy. In most casual situations the illusion of covering is enough: a jacket, a shirt, something to cover the majority of the body.

Lateral landlocked Vectors are trapped in the unfortunate reality of being perfectly suited to the wrong lifestyle. They exist in a world of buttons and tall controls and chairs intended for people who bend at the waist. They’re perpetually too short and lack the fingers needed to truly take advantage of the world around them. Even though their bodies are sound, evolution-wise, for existence on land, they are profoundly ill-suited for existence in society. Aquatic Laterals, however, have a different situation.

Aquatic Laterals are so ill-suited for land life that (with the extraordinarily rare exception) most choose to live entirely in the oceans. Land Vectors had little reason to build large underwater structures, so nearly all underwater habitation on Mars, Venus, and anywhere else possessing substantial bodies of water has been designed with Lateral specs involved from the beginning. Controls are structured for underwater visibility, hallways are flooded, rooms are submerged, and most structures are open to the sea in many areas, serving more as privacy zones and meeting areas than as actual “homes.”

The societies that have grown in these undersea domains are a mix of Vector sophistication and almost wildlife-level mannerisms. For one, aquatic Laterals are the only Vector subclass known to hunt for food as a natural does. The prey has been contained and bred so hours don’t need to be spent searching for it, and traditional land meals are available, but the cost of import and the difficulty involved in getting a meal meant for land life into the mouth of a Lateral shark have all pushed for a behavior that closely mirrors nature. Non-Lateral aquatics sometimes choose to live in these domains themselves, though rarely for long periods. Living in a Lateral home is tough when you’re not equipped like one. Even their restaurants consist of schooling fish, so you’ll inevitably be staying in the “leggy” portions of the facility. They’re designed for standard Vectors, but mechanical necessity and the relatively low population of land-based Vectors choosing to live underwater means they end up a wee bit
cramped. A lovely place to a visit; a bit stunting to stay in.

## Micro

The genes responsible for humanoid growth seem to have gone awry in you. You appear normally shaped, but your average size is no larger than that of your non-Vectored species. Micros are typically defined as any Vector that can fit the entirety of their bodies into a single square foot box, but even within that category there are dramatic fluctuations, with some pushing the limits on all edges while they curl up and tuck their ears, and others being small enough that the box is fairly roomy. Micros corner the market on body-sockets, often even more than Laterals do, as some Laterals can’t use them comfortably.

While the morphism itself is only broken down between micro and normal, micros themselves tend to sub-categorize further than that. Within their own grouping, heights can vary by six inches or more, which is a full body height in some cases. In many ways, this is a bigger threat within micro-exclusive societies than full sized people are. The difference between a 5’5” person and a 6’ person doesn’t mean much to an 8” person, but the difference between an 8” person and a 16” person means a hell of a lot. Micros tend to view the entire world with a healthy suspicion, even among their own ilk, as the danger of being physically overpowered is an almost omnipresent threat. They’re often underestimated and passed over for any job that requires a public face. Recent technological developments by the Lumen corporation however have granted micros access to weaponry and defensive gear that didn’t work on their scale before, allowing micro agents with frightening levels of firepower to infiltrate where a full sized person could not. It’s beginning to change the way security looks at the morphism.

## Taurism

Your hips don’t lead to two legs, but four. Your lower body looks like that of the feral version of your species, while your upper body looks normal (for a Vector). Taurs are the same general height as normal Vectors, which can result in their Lateral lower half either being larger or smaller than it would be on its natural counterpart. For instance, a tauric Skunk would have a torso the size of a normal Skunk Vector, and the lower body of a giant skunk. Taurs tend to weigh more and take up more space than most people, and they often require more space to move and sit in. Their spines are remarkably flexible and they can lie flat like anyone can, but on the whole they mass as much as two people, sometimes more. Taurs are defined as having one extra set of limbs (which equates to six limbs total for most, or a pair of arms for snakes).

Possessing an animal-like lower body does not convey the same animal-like physical benefits Laterals enjoy. Taurs look like their lower half is natural, but in order for their odd arrangement to function, their musculature and internal organs have all flipped and flopped to find a new balance within them. Cheetahs only run as fast as they do because their whole body is dedicated to that singular function. A cheetah taur doesn’t have access to that trademark speed without gene-refreshment.

Taurs are rare, and the galaxy is not made with tauric bodies in mind. Shoes are hard to find, seats don’t fit right, clothing is somewhat more limited, and you get looks in most places you go. While they are generally not treated with distrust or hatred, there is
a certain degree of hedonism attached to associating with this morphism among high society that might make it difficult for a taur to fit into some communities. They also tend to be typecast as physical laborers, as their bodies are well adapted for it.

Avian taurs are colloquially referred to as Angels and have long, bird-like legs with taloned feet, but only two of them. Their extra set of limbs comes in the form of wings that are independent of their arms, sprouting off their back instead. This can allow an angel a great deal more range of motion in the air than a traditional Avian Vector.

Snakes with the tauric Morphism lose their Lateral status, becoming a humanoid torso with a long, snake-like body instead. They’re colloquially referred to as Nagas, and the change typically makes them more or less Vector standard in height and build. It’s typically considered a step up from being a normal snake Lateral, but it sometimes results in trapping the snake between states it would rather be in. Snakes have their bodies replaced into bipeds so often, either before or after birth, that it’s actually a standard operation in most corptowns. Nagas don’t have it so rough that body-replacement is an automatically expected direction for them to go, so when they try, it’s sometimes looked at as being almost ungrateful for winning the genetic lottery that saved them from a Lateral life.

All aquatic Vectors share a deviation from the traditional outlooks on certain morphisms, as they work pretty differently when “legs” aren’t part of your natural animal anatomy. Most tauric aquatic Vectors look a bit like a cross between a Naga and a mermaid and have about as much trouble on land as you would expect. Tauric Delphinidae and Selachii members transition to their Lateral lower bodies just below the thighs, leaving a gap between the crotch and the lower body that’s absent on tauric snakes. Their hips are flanked by fins, which make for the extra set of limbs typically used to define the tauric morphism, and their lower body is a somewhat longer, extended version of their animal shape. Long enough to use for serpentine motion on land, though they’re not nearly as good at it as Nagas are. Tauric aquatics cut an imposing figure on the shore; between their extended bodies and fins, they’re extremely large, but the bizarre hybridization of anatomy is a detriment to land-based locomotion.
In the water, they’re considerably faster than their generic footy counterparts, but not nearly as fast as a full Lateral of their race.

Tauric seals have an even harder time; their tauric anatomy is more traditional, with their front flippers serving as forelegs and their lower body being
at a right angle to their upper, like taurs from the land-locked families. This makes them about as agile as a normal seal on land, which is to say, not very. Those poor seals which (through some act of a spiteful god) end up both micro and tauric have the singular distinction of being, quite possibly, the most adorable creatures ever to scoot ponderously around the galaxy. Naturally, most of them don’t much appreciate that description.

## Lever-Stanced

Taurs and Laterals make up the majority of aberrant body types among Vectors, and just about everyone has met one or the other at one (likely several) point in their lives. Lever-stanced Vectors are distinctly rarer and mark one of the few “natural” morphisms that even Vectors consider to look a bit weird.

Lever-stanced Vectors have robust legs and reinforced hips and tails that force them to adopt an almost T-shape as they move, vaguely akin to the assumed posture of many bipedal dinosaurs on Earth (though it’s unlikely any Vector would catch the reference). This morphism allows for a very high degree of mobility and agility but also involves a nearly complete internal restructuring of the body. It typically results in large, thick legs, an upper torso with almost animal-like styling, an extremely long tail that’s held aloft to counterbalance the forward body, and grasping, clawed feet. A longer neck and almost wedge-like shape to the face is also a typical trait, as it allows for a greater range of head motion while the body is tilted forward.

The lever-stance is significant for another reason: it’s the only morphism specifically known to be a deliberate result of human meddling. Some hold suspicions about taurism due to the complexity of its anatomical changes, but the lever-stance was no mistake; there is nothing remotely like it in the Vector genome of any family that might “accidentally” result in its spontaneous creation. Someone invented it at some point during the second generation and keyed it to specific Vector families, where it has stayed ever since. Like many mysteries from the bygone age of humanity, this one too has no certain answer, but suspicions range from experimentation to outright negligence, and a few (mostly those who hold that the Master’s Voice phenomenon was a deliberate attempt at a human safe-word) feel that it adds to the ever growing stack of evidence that there was more to the Vector program than is taught in the history books.

Unlike most morphisms, Lever-stance is family locked and doesn’t manifest in every Vector family. Only genetic (not order) members of Canidae, Felidae, Avialae, and Reptilia exhibit the lever-stance morphism, with the latter two showing it most commonly. Avialae lever-stanced Vectors even have a special name to accompany the shape: Wyvern.
