---
aliases: 
tags: 
date created: Friday, March 11th 2022, 7:01:08 pm
date modified: Monday, April 11th 2022, 6:51:09 pm
title: Delphinidae
---
# Delphinidae
### Background

Dolphins are, or were, one of the most intelligent creatures on Earth back when Earth still possessed a scale of intelligence. Most countries had officially accepted them as a sapient race by the time the war hit, though the admission was more a novelty than any indication of action. They were protected from hunting, but beyond that, there wasn’t much to it. It wasn’t like the dolphins were buying homes or filling out tax forms, after all. When the time came to implement aquatic species into the Vector line, however, they were at the top of the list, and it made more than a few people feel a little squeamish. This was a race that had its own society, its own language, even a rudimentary understanding of mathematics, and their template was being taken from them for manipulation by forces outside their control. It seemed somehow… different… from the previous Vectoring subjects.

From a scientific standpoint, it didn’t really matter. Dolphins were not being slaughtered to surgically splice them with humans, nor was any degree of harmful capture or violence required to sculpt the new bodies; a small blood sample provided enough genetic material to modify the human blank. It was no more a violation to them than it was to a dog or a cat. The only real difference was that a dog or a cat didn’t really care if there was another species wandering around built off hijacked DNA. They had no recognizable sense of self. They wouldn’t feel taken advantage of. A dolphin, however, might. But even that wasn’t the true heart of the issue. It dug a little deeper, at the reality of the Vector project as a whole.

For several of the scientists involved, the dolphin Vector was a second look back at a much earlier decision made in anger and self-righteousness, when the Vector process began in order to spite what they perceived as damning legislation made by people with less vision. Now, with the project in its third generation and with Earth slowly smoldering far, far away, the feeling in the air was very different. Buried in a log entry from an unknown scientist in the Delphinidae project is a quote that provides some of the only emotional context from the entire team of 700 years long past. “I would not have been so quick to play God, had I fully understood the rules.” By the time the family Delphinidae left the tanks, millions of humans had died back home, and their new caretakers were forced to look into the eyes of a template they knew to be from a creature of near-human intelligence and explain what was happening. Somewhere in that conversation so many centuries ago had to have been the revelation that it was unlikely Earth’s dolphin population was going to have much say in whether or not they survived the war.

Family Delphinidae doesn’t carry the emotional baggage of its creators around with it on a daily basis. Dolphins are generally considered pleasant folk, with their Lateral members being among the few Vectors universally recognized as “friendly.” Mostly because of their environment; Lateral dolphins have luxurious lives compared to most of the landlocked Vector species. They’re among a very small population that can do the jobs needed in their locations, which puts them in high demand. Living space is plentiful, their ocean world is bountiful, and since they have very little reason to come on shore anyway, they typically don’t have cause to gripe at folks for whatever may be going on up there. They’re also rather infamous for pretending to be naturals when they’re not, a collective joke which has led to more than a few awkward revelations.

The situation changes a bit for tauric members, who have an even harder time than tauric sharks getting around on land. Their bodies aren’t naturally accustomed to serpentine motion and have to be taught it, which many have likened to “learning to walk on your hands” in terms of how unnatural it feels. With practice they can manage a pretty graceful job of it, but the bizarre construction of aquatic taurs makes it difficult for them to move at speed in comparison to people with legs, and their upper bodies slow them down in the water compared to Laterals. Most of the family Delphinidae consider it a lose/lose situation, and they’re statistically the second-highest race to undergo body-replacement surgery 63 if afflicted with this condition. Seals are the first.

Standard bipedal Delphinidae Vectors have much fewer anatomical eccentricities to worry about than taurs or Laterals, though more than your everyday dog does. Their dorsal fins are smaller and less pronounced, but still present, and their thick tails make sitting an annoyance in most areas (a condition that those of family Reptilia can identify with). Stools are the usual solution; most attempts
to make a one-chair-fits-all design for seating has resulted in something that’s either too large, too unruly, too expensive to be practical, or equally uncomfortable for anyone sitting in it. Arm and leg protrusions in fin-like shapes are also common in the family, but their size can vary dramatically between individuals in a species. Delphinidae Vectors have human-shaped feet, without webbing, as no alternative exists within their progenitor species.

Family Delphinidae is generally viewed as an even-tempered sort, with its various species being intelligent and witty, if a little detached. Their penchant for aquatic living tends to color their opinion of land life a bit, even if they spend most of their own time there. Most notably, dolphins (and indeed, most aquatics) exhibit less brand loyalty than most Vectors do. Megacorps have customers in the ocean, certainly, but not nearly so many as they do on land, and with far fewer products. Add to that the fact that dolphins typically provide their own food and housing and a lot of the areas for corporate bombardment go missing. As a result, they tend to make good sounding boards and go-betweens for other Vectors who may be too tied up in personal feelings to view a situation objectively. Family Delphinidae has no shortage of passionate feelings; it just doesn’t usually have them about the matters that compel and infuriate your typical canine CEO.

Bottlenose makes up the majority of the Delphinidae population, with orcas being among the least common (comparatively; they still have a substantial population). Even among their own kind, orcas face a racial bias uncommon in Vectors, who are accustomed to being surrounded by people of all shapes and sizes. The stigmata extends directly from Europa, whose local population of mutated undersea monsters has colored the public opinion of what an orca “is.” Curiously enough, the misconception is not present among Europan natives, but among the populace of worlds like Mars and Venus who hear strange stories from the distant moon and figure there’s some band of druggedup killer whales out there being jackasses to everyone. Natives of Europa, and anyone who’s ever seen so much as a silhouette of what lurks in their depths, know that it’s a far cry from the Vectors walking around on the surface.

### Appearance

Most members of this family stand around standard human height with equivalent ranges of deviation.
Their fitness and musculature is typically more noticeable than it is on other families because of the lack of fur, which has led to a general opinion of Delphinidae as athletes.
They have no particular predisposition toward sports, but in mixed-breed company, people will often nudge them toward it if only because of reputation.
Orcas are particularly large and heavyset, usually over 6 feet tall with taller members threatening Vectors with Macro surgery in terms of height.
All members of the family feature dolphin-like skin instead of fur and long, thick tails akin to their progenitors.
Dorsal, arm, and leg fins are also present, but typically muted.
The famous blowhole of this family serves little purpose on a biped and was removed in the original Vector design, but some Vectors have had them surgically added above their dorsal fin between their shoulders as a sort of physical statement of dedication to living below the waves.
While it does have a practical purpose (cupping an oxygen supply over the blow-hole keeps the mouth free to speak) it’s primarily a social statement more than a necessity. This family does not grow hair naturally, but some have taken to adopting cosmetic surgery at a young age to gain the ability.