---
aliases: 
tags: 
date created: Friday, March 11th 2022, 7:01:09 pm
date modified: Thursday, April 14th 2022, 10:34:56 pm
title: Rodentia
---
# Rodentia
### Background

The merged family Rodentia consists of avariety of largely unrelated species who have joined together over the years because of similar backgrounds, historical partnerships, and a few common mistakes. Some were one-off species that were introduced to the Vector program because of specific exploitable assets, but whose actual families did not provide substantial variation to warrant including additional members. Others, like the rats which make up the family’s majority population, have lost most of their species distinctiveness through deliberate genetic manipulation. Rodentia is a very large family, which grants it a significant presence in society as a whole, but its members are also substantially different from each other in perspective and mentality. It hurts them as a unifying force, but helps them get around their reputations from time to time.

#### Rats

Rats, like many Rodentia, were introduced in the second generation. Their design was flawed (not uncommon for Golden generation Vectors) but the nature of the error didn’t become clear for several generations. Rats had a malfunction in their mutt-reduction protection that caused it to fail rather spectacularly when paired with other rats. Vectors are designed not to hybridize. Even members of the same specific steps are taken medically to deactivate those protections. In rats, the intra-species protections were absent. Over time, all rat species would eventually homogenize into one. Keeping species from converging wasn’t a social issue but the mutt-reduction system existed specifically to try and reduce the chances of erroneous code from popping up in children of mixed breeds that might result in a large population that couldn’t breed at all. Mules, essentially. To have that system be damaged held the potential of labeling the entire Rat array of species as dangerous to Vector kind on the whole.

Rather than fight this and stamp their own family as “flawed,” the rats embraced it and promoted reproductive exclusivity for several generations of their history to actually help the process along, as well as introducing specific boosters for traits considered preferable by their own standards. The final product of this self-induced eugenics program was a rat with jet black fur, black skin, and golden eyes that shine red in direct light. While rats all have their own unique attributes, heights, weights, facial features, and personalities, every modern rat shares that common coloration. It’s a trait the species as a whole bears with pride, and they are among the least tolerant of fur dye or pattern-based morphisms in their midst. Most rats looking to distinguish themselves employ piercings and other jewelry, or ear and tail tattoos. There is nothing quite so visually striking as massed rat Vectors; they appear as a wave of glossy black cut into sleek shapes with long tails and metallic detailing.

Rats are a touchy subject with a lot of Vector families. They’re the only species to collectively take responsibility for the creation of a new type of Vector after the original program’s termination (and to subsequently lose control over them), and the only species to so drastically destroy its own variety. There are some that salute the unity that has come of it, and others who view it as a form of voluntary genocide. Rats, on the whole, are almost aggressively apathetic about how the rest of the solar system views them. They typically put a great deal of stock in how they are viewed individually, however. It’s a curious dichotomy that makes them difficult to befriend until you figure out the rules of how to communicate with a species whose individual members want to stand out in a crowd, but who take personal pride in their collective status as “RAT,” the singular.

#### Mice

Mice were not part of the Vector program. In
fact, mouse Vectors didn’t exist until 150 years after the last population enhancement phase. They were created, quite illegally, by a rat-owned megacorp called Genotype in an act that stunned the solar system and would eventually become one of the more infamous events in Vector history.

The original Vector project facilities haven’t been functional in ages, but the biotechnology that species, say, a husky and a golden retriever, will not create a mixed breed child unless was used to create Vectors to begin with is at the core of all modern industry pertaining to organic manipulation. The ability to make a new Vector is within the grasp of any corp with a large enough biotech department and has been since day one. The deterrent is responsibility. If anything pertaining to the new Vectored race were to go wrong (if they became violent, or antisocial, or began showing undesirable behaviors), it would inevitably fall back on the organization that spawned them to “rein them in.” It wouldn’t even have to be on a large scale. Anything: petty crime, public insults, terrorism, or just poor behavior, and the first thing that would pop to anyone’s lips would be “what are you going to do about this?” followed shortly by “why were they made to begin with?” That’s a very large albatross to bear for any organization dependent on public opinion to support its success. Up until Genotype created mice, the only group to successfully attempt this sort of thing was Applied Science and Robotics, the creators of the Cog race, and it has required so much effort that they have almost hinged their business on it for over 600 years.

Genotype was the megacorp that spearheaded the single-species rat consolidation movement. What began as a way to keep the rat family from being viewed as genetically deficient grew into an industry based around various treatments to help accelerate and aim the homogenization of the rats into a singular species. Along with it came the mentalities, the manifest destinies, and all the hallmarks of a system put in place to rally a people behind it. One of those mentalities was a dismissal of some of the usual rules of Vector behavior in order to legitimize their actions. With that choice came the opportunity to step over additional boundaries under the same banner, which culminated in the creation of Vector mice as a species all their own.

“Slave race” was, of course, never in the press releases or any official statement made by the megacorp, but it was pretty clear in everyone’s thoughts when all the details were laid out on the table. Mice were underpopulated, vulnerable because of their lack of a social history, and reliant on corp support to keep them going as they tried to establish their place in the world. And Genotype happily provided that – with a few conditions, naturally. Being a workforce, occupying dangerous areas, being handed jobs as charity that were, in fact, undesirable or risky and required minimal education. They went so far as to differentiate the mice visually as well, so as to avoid mistaken identities. The only mouse species that was Vectored had pure white fur, pink skin and black eyes (though the red glint stuck around), and had a genetic predisposition toward being small, with few members exceeding five feet tall.

The whole situation caused ripples of worry through the entirety of Vector society. The results of a new species introduction had been theorized before, but it had never actually happened, and certainly not completely out of the blue like this. They were locked
in a trap of their own making: by standing back, they allowed a race that was clearly created for the purpose of subservience to continue being abused, but if anyone stepped forward and formally accused their creators of it, all Genotype would have to do was say “Really? We didn’t mean to do that. Fine, you take them.” and a whole new race of people would land in their laps. For years, tensions rose, and to many it was looking like the only way to get the now even larger megacorp to own up to its actions while still providing for its creation was to force it on them violently. It was going to come down to who took that dangerous first step, and nobody wanted to be the one to start. So they didn’t, and the ever growing population of mice continued to exist under the “benevolent” rule of Genotype.

About 20 years later, the mice took care of the problem themselves, and Genotype was reduced to smoldering ruin. Overconfidence in their own situation had caused Genotype execs to grant access to far too many key areas of their enterprise to the mice they had convinced themselves were their friends. Through cunning deception and careful planning, coordination with outside help and a sense of righteous indignation the rats probably didn’t even know was there, mice had worked their way into financial systems, manufacturing systems, commerce, food, water, every aspect of the Genotype industry. They brought the entire multimillion-employee company down to its knees in two days, and, in a publicly televised declaration of principles and execution of its board of directors, flattened it on the third. To many in Sol, this was the day the mice truly arrived, and there was nothing meek about it.

Since then, mice have slotted themselves forcibly into family Rodentia and are known as fiercely independent people who detest having to rely on anyone who isn’t put in that position by some sort of ranking scheme. They like hierarchies and work very well in structured environments where they know exactly who is accountable to whom. In open systems, they’re typically quick to volunteer for tasks. Some assume it’s because they feel they have something to prove. Others think they do it to avoid being assigned things instead. As Vectors go, though, their reputation for being quick-witted, short-tempered, and sharptongued is among the most widely recognized in Sol. The fact that they have such a concrete public image as opposed to other species is likely due to the fact that their existence will forever be tied to their actions so many years ago, instead of the actions of humans.


#### Squirrels

There are over 150 different species of Vectored squirrel, ranking them among the most diverse Vectors in existence. They’re also the first, but it’s not something they celebrate 67 quite as openly as canines do. Canidae holds the distinction of being the first “true” Vectored species, as in, the first one to be put in the tanks with the intention of emerging as fully fledged members of intelligent society. They were not, however, the first to undergo the operation. Humans typically don’t run early experiments on dogs. They tend to aim smaller, and in the case of the earliest prototypes, they used squirrels. The reasoning accepted by most Vector historians is that squirrels were inexpensive, plentiful, had a very large species differentiation available to test with, and presented a few unique anatomical challenges for conversion. Typically, rats or mice were used for things of this nature, but the theory is that it was actually somewhat difficult to get lab rats up to Mars because they were being monitored as likely indicators of then-illegal operations. Alas, not enough of Earth’s specific history remains to know for certain.

Squirrels are rarely credited for the role they played in Vector creation, and most of them are content with that fact. Being the test subject is somewhat less glamorous than being the finished product the canines were, especially when certain documents exist that suggest squirrels were likely not intended to remain in the system past the testing phase. The clearest indication is the fact that they were included in the second generation and not the first, despite being a completed project by the time the first generation launched. It would appear their inclusion was not considered necessary until a need for a larger population became apparent. They’re not alone in that boat: any of the second or third gen Vectors could claim the same, but only squirrels were known to exist and function prior to their official inclusion in one of the population enhancement phases.

As a species, squirrels are easily overlooked. They’re known for modesty and shyness, and in most workplaces they aren’t really expected to shine in the crowd. Rarely are they described as “ambitious,” and even “outgoing” is a rarity. Like dogs, they’re often seen as faces in the crowd, and not really considered significant beyond that. Which makes it all the more satisfying to those squirrels who break the mold. Those who’ve logged some time with the species typically have a different outlook: they are as good as you tell them to be. It’s rare for a squirrel to volunteer to do anything; they’re usually content to do their assigned tasks and be left alone, but if you push them, even when they’re concerned about not being capable, they rise to the occasion with surprising regularity. They have a knack for learning how to learn, and with the right person pushing them along, they can pick up whatever is necessary to achieve what’s required. More often than not, they didn’t even know they had it in them. Savvy bosses usually try and pair squirrels with mice in teams. It gives the mouse’s innate goemployer if people called them out on it, but that’s never stopped things before.

The big “problem” with the squirrel species is that, because they’ve never really stood out, they’ve also never been hammered down. There is no singular event they can point to and say: “This, this is us. This is where we stood up,” beyond potentially being a discarded step in the Vectorization process. Mice have their strike for equality, rabbits have their war with the cats, dogs have their roles as “caretakers,” nearly every unique species has something that they can be defined by. Squirrels have yet to land in that spotlight, and as such their individual achievements are often overlooked. Hundreds of squirrels have achieved greatness in history. They’ve been proud captains or have led companies, been supermodels or sports stars, even redefined the laws of physics, but it was always an individual achievement more than a collective one. More than most species, squirrels don’t look at other squirrels as family or particularly close kin. They’re just other folks, like anyone else, doing their thing. It’s a simple open-mindedness and largely positive outlook that has kept them out of trouble for 700 years, but it has also shrouded them in obscurity.

#### Rabbits

There is a long standing jab toward family Felidae about having started three separate race wars in their history – and losing all three of them. That isn’t entirely accurate. For one, Vectors are not segregated into different species or family centers in everyday life, so it’s not like one cat or dog or bird can stand up on a box and declare “we’re all doing this now.” Rats are about the closest example to that actually happening, and it was only possible because of a genetic defect they were going to have to deal with anyway. Secondly, the “wars” themselves are somewhat overblown.

The first was a corporate rivalry between two feline-owned corporations of substantial size, which turned out to be fueled by a private affair between the CEOs that went sour. They brought each other to ruin and toppled a pair of billion-credit empires in the process. From the outside, it literally looked like a catfight, as that was the vast majority of the employee population, and the public assumption was that it was species infighting, as naturally, the corps themselves were very tight-lipped about the real reason. The truth has been known for centuries now, but the reputation has stuck around.

The second was the only true attempt at outside interference against Genotype for their creation and subsequent exploitation of mouse Vectors. Several teams of cats united under a banner of responsibility toward Vector-kind began economic and social pressure against the corp; they were gaining considerable ground until a few unfortunate leaks made it look very likely that they were only moving in to try and get a piece of the action. When they were exposed, they subsequently dissolved in short order, and it made the get-’em attitude a suitable tool to mold, while subsequently keeping them out of trouble. Of course, it’s also a racial stereotype that would likely bring down a lot of heat on said whole of feline-kind look pretty bad in the process. The most recent (around 200 years ago) was the only one that qualified as a genuine race-based conflict, and it subsequently colored the previous two. It was a time of tumultuous expansion in the stars with fresh technology that allowed for faster trade and great explosions of wealth, and cats, due in no small part to their considerable population, were grossing high on pride and profit. A movement began within some of their more lucrative ranks about their success being based on predatory instinct. That they could hunt down that which could make them happy, and that they were better equipped than other species to capture it. It began as an ambiguous reference but evolved over several years into a larger mentality of genuine racial superiority, and before too long, it needed a target to prove itself. That target was rabbits.

Up until then, rabbits had enjoyed a peaceful reputation of being somewhat more outgoing squirrels: bright, useful, plentiful, and a bit more aggressive than some of the meeker members of Rodentia. They had confidence and drive but were known to be a little panicky under pressure. The growing feline superiority movement pointed to those incidences as indications of genetic cowardice or weakness, and rabbits began finding themselves without jobs with feline employers, or, for those with businesses of their own, without feline employees. When several rabbit-owned companies were aggressively bought out though open coercion, it became clear that this problem was only going to get bigger. Violent retaliation was threatened against the movement’s leaders, who largely laughed it off. By then, the thought process behind rabbit inferiority made the prospect of being attacked by whatever qualified as a “rabbit soldier” not a matter of much concern.

The social and economic war lasted nearly five years before the shooting war began. It lasted six months and ended with the disbanding of the feline superiority movement, a series of public apologies, the payment of significant reparations to various business owners on the part of feline businesses that hadn’t even been involved, and an overall feeling of shame that hung over feline heads for the next fifty years or so before they really started putting it behind them.

As it turns out, those same “panicky, jerking, nervous” twitch reactions that made rabbits such “inferior” species in the wild made them exceptionally alert, quick, and accurate when put in the cockpit of a ship or armed with a rifle. Guns, it would seem, don’t really care if you growl really big and have large sharp teeth. They only care how fast you can pull the trigger. Aside from the social sting, it was a reminder to Vector-kind not to judge books by their cover. Fur, scales, feathers, or fins, there was enough human in everyone to fight like humans did.

#### Bats

Giving one family singular control of the skies carried with it the same concerns associated with giving one family singular control of the ocean. Unfortunately, truly flight-capable Earth wildlife is somewhat limited outside of the Avialae family, especially when disregarding insects, which were not compatible with the Vector design process developed at the time. But there was another option worth pursuing, involving a creature with fantastic adaptation and flying ability and which poseda unique challenge to the Vector designers. Bats arrived alongside birds in the third generation, and have shared the skies on uncertain terms ever since.

With substantially fewer species included in their Vectorization, bats were an underdog in both diversity and population from day one. It has bred in them a mentality of cutthroat cunning and deception that cats find familiar, but instead of being aimed toward personal advancement, bats typically pay more attention to personal protection. They have a knack for picking out weaknesses and exploiting vital areas, and turning other people’s thoughts against themselves. By design or coincidence, this has put them at odds with the Avialae family on multiple occasions, as they’re already known for being one step from dangerously unhinged, and bats are quite good at picking out which direction to push. Which is not to say they’re all assholes who push people’s buttons all day; they just tend to know a bit more about the situations they go into than they let on, and they work that gray area to their advantage.

Bats share a few Morphism quirks with birds. Their taurs, for example, have wings on their backs and taloned feet, like birds do. While tauric birds are generally referred to as Angels, tauric bats bear the somewhat less pleasant title of “Gargoyles,” and most would just as soon have you not use it around them. While religion in many forms is very much still in existence in the post-human universe, “Angel” has been attached to tauric birds more firmly than it has been to scripture. When the word is spoken aloud, the default thought is of a bird with wings coming out of its back instead of its arms. It is not inherently thought of as “angelic” in the traditional sense. Gargoyle, however, was a term adopted later in Vector history when images of ancient Earth buildings surfaced with statues that looked vaguely akin to tauric bats. Rather than feeling natural like the Angel moniker, “Gargoyle” was a virally popular title among other species that was socially forced on them, and it has stuck ever since. Most bats consider it at least somewhat derogatory.

Bat Laterals are not seen with quite the same esteem as bird Laterals are by their own kind. Bird Laterals can exist pretty readily in most normal environments provided there’s something to perch on, and their family respects their superior flight skills. Between light, noise, and inferior perching and walking ability, many bats have a much harder time of it. They tend to flock toward careers that take advantage of their quirks, which can be anything from underground mining to tight corridor maintenance in space stations. Typically, a Lateral bat can demand good money for the sort of work only they can do, as the other options tend to be much worse at it. Alas, said jobs are few and far between, and many of this admittedly rare breed live vagrant lives or join full-Lateral communities rather than attempt to bridge the gap. Like sharks, there are a notably large number of feral Lateral bats who have given up society completely and have turned to living like animals because their bodies just make the process easier than trying to live like Vectors.