---
aliases: 
tags: 
date created: Friday, March 11th 2022, 7:01:09 pm
date modified: Thursday, April 14th 2022, 10:34:58 pm
title: Ursidae
---
# Ursidae
### Background

Sometimes called the “lost” family (though rarely in polite company), Ursidae holds the singular distinction of a lack of historical justification. Many records from the days of the Vector experiments are jumbled, incomplete, or lacking context, but rarely is a chunk as large as an entire family outright missing. Ursidae was part of the first wave, an alpha, right up there with Canidae and Felidae, but the earliest mention of them in historical documentation is simply their presence in the first tanks, with no notation as to why they were chosen or what their inclusion hoped to add to the overall line. One would think it should be a small inconvenience; it’s not like any of the modern Vectors really pattern their lives off what humanity was thinking nearly 1,000 years ago, but the lack of a distinct process behind their creation has left the family with a lot of profound questions over the years.

Vectors are philosophical beings, just as humans were, but for them, some of the great questions of the universe actually have categorized answers. “Why am I here? What is my purpose? Where did I come from?” There are names and notes attached to the answers to these questions. Sometimes even locations. One of the first tubes is actually on display in a Martian museum; there’s a canine family that can trace their genealogy all the way back to it. Granted, they’re the third one to do it in the museum’s history (oddly enough, the “new evidence” always seems to follow a substantial donation), but it’s still a thing that can be pointed at as a reason, or at least a cause, for existence. Ursidae has none.

The theory is that the records regarding the Ursidae family were lost in an accident before they were integrated into redundant backups. Three possible events are considered the most likely culprits, and it’s a matter of hot debate among historians as to which is the true cause. The first was the surprise nuking of Mars near the end of the war, when a HemiVector spy on board a descending ship detonated a warhead, destroyed the Mars spaceport, and severely damaged the surrounding area. Some of those structures were known to contain information about other critical operations.

The second was the fall of humanity. By the time Mars was fully aware of the level of global devastation the systematic bombing was doing, it was far too late to attempt to stop it; not that they possessed the means to do so, anyway. Something had happened over there, something inexplicable and irreversible. For the human population of Mars, it was a time of indescribable sorrow. The sort that sits in your gut like a heavy weight and doesn’t leave. A sadness that could only be caused by the knowledge that everything that was once your world was ending. Your culture, your heritage, any hope of redemption and recon-ciliation: gone. A lot of day-to-day record keeping fell off the books during that period, because people simply weren’t doing it. Sloppy mistakes were made, systems weren’t properly maintained, and data was lost or misplaced. It took a long time for purpose to drive the survivors back into orderly behavior. In the time between, any number of things could have fallen into a folder and never returned.

The third was the owl, which best estimates believe was gestated in the same building that Ursidae was, years earlier.

Modern day bears fit a great deal of personality types but are habitually lumped in with canines when considered by other families. The differences are distinct, but the trend of so many centuries of not being able to attach a label to their history has resulted in them being socially absorbed by the larger group. They have a reputation of being thought of as sidekicks rather than leaders, which is largely unfair when their history is thoroughly considered. Bears have led fleets, run corporations, and achieved scientific breakthroughs, but they’re forever regarded as being “part of a team” instead of individually recognized. Over the years it’s made them a little bitter, and recent trends of asserting their identities have led to a growing public opinion of them being inherently violent or quick to anger. This behavior only serves to keep pushing the problem, and some bears have come to embrace that adversarial reputation as a part of their “uniqueness.” Depending on what version of their history they believe, some will go so far as resenting avians or HemiVectors for their supposed role in the lack of Ursidae history. Those that do will usually take issue with the members of their own species whose views of the guilty party in their history differ from their own.

### Appearance

Family Ursidae is typically tall and broad, and their short tails and blunt ears set them apart from canines or others of relatively equivalent stature.
Pandas and polar bears are easy to recognize due to their coloration, but black and grizzly bear bipeds can pass for canines at a cursory glance. The difference becomes a lot more obvious when taurs and Laterals are involved. Grizzly and polar Laterals have a particularly difficult time operating in tight areas, as they’re significantly larger than most doorways or ceilings and lack the flexibility of large cat breeds that might suffer the same issue.
As Laterals go, though, they match raccoons in terms of overall manual dexterity. Many manage to find lucrative work in the same positions as standard Vectors, even if they do feel a little cramped in the lunch room.